# Skynet vs TravisCI
Both TravisCI and Skynet are viable continuous integration (CI) systems. Skynet is built in-house with Ansible, and TravisCI is a 3rd Party CI system. Both systems allow for Github integration, the ability to see build reports, and easy configuration. Build reporting is one of the most important aspects of a continuous integration system as it allows you to see the status of the build along with the output. This output is what is helpful for debugging and figuring out why the build failed.

One of the core differences between the two systems is cost. To get TravisCI to work in the park we would need to pay for a plan. Skynet however, is free because it was built in-house. Skynet had an upfront cost, but now has no monthly or yearly fee, other than the power supply to the laptops and general maintenance fees. Because Skynet is free and located at the Park, any maintenance that is required will be done by the team. This means that any time a laptop goes down, we have to fix it. If there is a problem with the build configurations or if Skynet goes down, we have to fix it. These issues costs the company time, and as a result, money. The benefit of having control over our own CI system, however, is that we are in full control of fixing any problems. Meaning once a problem does come up with the CI, we don't have to sit around waiting for the TravisCI's team to remedy the situation.

One major benefit of Skynet is the ability to cater its functionality to the company's needs. The configuration files can be curated in such a way to benefit unique problems that we may have around the park. With TravisCI, we get what we get with their configuration files or setup. The build machines for Skynet can also be configured and optimized to the company's needs, whereas TravisCI could not provide that kind of support. Skynet can continue to grow and adapt to the company's needs because we have full control over the system. If we wanted to ever expand the Skynet system to test more than just TDD, we could work that functionality in.

Where TravisCI has an advantage is its easy integration with Github. All you need is a TravisCI account and it will connect right to Github. While Skynet _is_ connected to Github, there are more steps to set it up. Skynet requires there to be a `build` branch on all repos that want to have continuous integration. This `build` branch can never be deleted and needs to be maintained. TravisCI on the other hand does not require an extra branch and works with one configuration file in the master branch. Along with this Github integration advantage, comes the dashboards. TravisCI's dashboard for repository builds is more aesthetically pleasing than Skynet's, which is built on Jenkins. Jenkins's has a less modern, clunky dashboard compared to TravisCI's dashboard. Skynet's build reporting is a wall of text that can sometimes be challenging to sift through to find errors. TravisCI's build reporting appears as a nice color-coded terminal.

I believe the business should use Skynet for its continuous integration system. While TravisCI has the advantage when it comes to Github integration, better dashboards, and lack of maintenance, I don't believe that outweighs the benefits that come from custom configuration and free pricing. Skynet offers the company more flexibility for growth by having an in-house CI system. After the initial start-up cost of Skynet's development, the system is practically free outside of time maintenance cost. While maintenance is a double edged sword, the ability to work on the system in-house provides our team with the ability to configure and own the CI system. If TravisCI was free, it might be worth giving up the freedom and configuration ability that Skynet gives in order to not have to deal with the overhead of owning Skynet. But for now, I believe Skynet is the best option for GEA's continuous integration system.
